in this video I'll be showing you the
fundamental importance of learning to
work with the grain of wood when you
advance to higher levels of woodworking
you'll still find yourself using the
same techniques that I'll be showing you
now you'll need a handful of basic tools
to follow my methods throughout this
course you're going to master the tools
that have been used throughout the
centuries and are as relevant now as
they were then
in the first project I'll introduce you
to one of wood workings best-kept
secrets how to cut curves like a master
in just a few seconds our second project
is the spoon this is where we perfect
the principles of reading the grain and
shaping the world next we make a bowl
this project is all about using the
gouge the tools you use soon become
familiar to you and with practice you'll
become highly skilled in using them
effectively each stage of this video
will build the skills that will enable
you to make the final project the stool
and this will all be achieved with
accuracy sharpness and technique